# When to create an ADR

## Status

Proposed

## Context

As a team, we weren't sure when decisions should be recorded in an Architectural Decision Record (ADR). 

However, we know that we should record certain decisions made on this project, so that others can more easily understand the motivation behind decisions that have been made.

ADRs will also be useful for the GDS technical assessment, so we decided to [get together](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lZuM9qs=/?moveToWidget=3074457354907364156&cot=14) to agree on when and how to write them.  

## Decision

We should consider writing an ADR when we find ourselves making decisions that require in-depth discussions.

Since this is a new way of documenting for a few of us, if we're unsure whether an ADR is appropriate, we should reach out to the rest of the development team on Slack to see whether they feel that there's value in writing one.
- The rest of the team should respond with emojis or in the thread to help reach a decision.

We will use [this template](docs/adr/0000-2021-01-28-adr-template.md) for our ADRs.

All developers will be responsible for writing ADRs.

All other developers will be responsible for reading, commenting on, and updating ADRs as appropriate.

Conversations should take place on the GitHub Pull Requests rather than other mediums, as this will keep all of the relevant points discoverable.

Key points raised in discussion should be integrated into the ADR, if appropriate.


Key Benefits
------------
* A durable record of key decisions made during the project

Key Drawbacks
-------------
* Developers will need to make time to record, and give/receive feedback on, key architectural decisions.

## Alternatives
We could not write any ADRs - this would free up the time needed to write/review them.

However, in the long-term things like onboarding could be more difficult, as it isn't always easy to remember and explain why certain choices were made during the project.

For future developers who might join the team, there might be a loss of time that occurs for seemingly intangible reasons, where the root cause is actually a lack of understanding of historical decisions that have been taken.


## Consequences

The ADR template has been updated slightly, so the previous two ADRs don't follow the exact same pattern as this and future ADRs.

All developers should spend some time reading the links below and review this ADR!

## Supporting Documentation
- <https://adr.github.io/>
- <https://engineering.atspotify.com/2020/04/14/when-should-i-write-an-architecture-decision-record/>
- <https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/earn-maintainers-esteem-with-adrs/>
